Good afternoon.
I'm Chris Pavicich.
Welcome to session 607, WebObjects Tools.
Just a quick question before we start.
How many of you have ever
used WebObjects before?
How many of you?
Okay.
Wow.
How many of you have used the product
for more than five years and remember
when it was implemented in Objective-C?
Wow.
Okay.
How many of you are
completely new to the product?
All right, good mix.
Okay, today I'm going to be talking
about our development tool chain.
So let's get a roadmap of
where we're going here.
I'm going to start out giving
you a brief overview of the
WebObjects framework stack.
We're going to talk a little
bit about how a WebObjects app
does the work that it does.
And then we're going to
start talking about tools.
We're going to be talking
about data modeling,
our rapid prototyping tools,
using Xcode to write
custom business logic.
Customizing your UI using
WebObjects Builder.
And then we're going to do some QA.
So let's dive right in.
WebObjects is a highly scalable,
enterprise-level application
server built around the
model-view-controller paradigm.
We've got three sort of framework layers.
Our data access layer.
Business Logic Layer is where
you're going to write all of your
application-specific business
logic and presentation layer.
There's a clean separation between
each of these levels of the frameworks.
And we're going to talk about each of
them in turn today and the tools you'll
use with each level of the architecture.
So the WebObjects Framework
Stack at its very base
It's built on the
Java Foundation classes.
If you're familiar
with Cocoa Development,
Java Foundation looks a lot like
the regular Foundation classes.
It's sort of a Java port.
That's the base upon which
everything else is built.
The next layer up is our
Enterprise Objects Framework Stack.
EOF is used for relational
database to object graph mapping.
It's built up of three
actually different frameworks.
EO Access is used to handle all of the
The EO Control Layer is where we
do all the object graph management
once we've turned your database
objects into Java business objects.
And the EO Interface Layer is
mainly used for Java Client.
On top of that,
we have our App Server layer
and our rapid prototyping tools,
direct-to-web, direct-to-web services,
and direct-to-Java client are built
on top of our App Server framework.
Okay, so let's talk about how a
WebObjects app does what it does.
The main, the heart of a WebObjects app
is the request-response loop.
So clearly a web app
starts with the browser.
Browser sends a request
to the web server.
The web server parses
the request it gets,
forwards on to the WoW adapter
that plugs into your web server,
and the adapter then forwards that
request on to the appropriate app
instance that you have running.
The app instance then
parses the request it gets,
sends it off to an
appropriate request handler,
and then each of the classes
within your application
pulls information from
the request it gets.
The application gets its
chance at handling the request,
as does the session,
as do your nested WoE components.
Once the action you're
calling has finished its work,
each of those in turn gets a
chance to append to response.
and your request goes back out or your
response goes back out to the browser.
So I want to start off today talking
about the different tools in each layer.
The data access layer,
the primary tool you're going
to be working with is EOModeler.
The business logic layer,
the primary tool you'll be working
with is Xcode and your Java classes.
And on the presentation layer,
if you're writing a web app,
you'll be working with
WebObjects Builder.
If you're writing a web
services application,
you'll be working with our
web services assistant.
And if you're writing a
three-tiered Java application,
you'll be working with Interface Builder.
Okay, so I liken building a web
app to building a sports car.
You've got to start someplace,
you've got to start
with the nuts and bolts,
that's your data.
So...
As I said earlier,
EOModeler is the main tool you'll be
working with on the data access layer.
So what is EOModeler?
EOModeler is the face
of the EOF frameworks.
What does EOF do?
In a nutshell,
EOF does object graph management.
It takes a relational data store,
turns those rows in that database
into Java business objects,
and manages the object graph for you.
So tables in your database
map to entities in EOModeler.
The columns in those
tables map to attributes,
and the joins between those
tables map to relationships
between the objects in your graph.
Use EO Modeler for building
all of your data models.
If you've got a large existing
relational database installation
that you want to expose to the web,
you'll be using Modeler to
reverse engineer your database,
publish it to the web,
turn it into a web service,
turn it into a Java app.
Use WebObjects Builder for
modeling your entities.
If you're starting from scratch
and you're building a new database,
you can use WebObjects Builder
to model your entities,
and then it'll do SQL generation for you,
and you can create your
database directly from Modeler.
Once you've got your entities modeled,
EOModeler does source code generation.
It's just a simple matter
of opening your model,
selecting an entity,
and hitting "Create a
Java Class for this entity."
There's data browsing
capability within EOModeler,
so if you want to see that, hey,
is my connection dictionary right?
Am I talking to the database?
Load up your model, pick an entity,
hit browse,
and it'll automatically fetch for you.
New in this release of WebObjects today,
new in 5.3, there's an Xcode plugin
for doing EOModeling.
Based on some of the
core data modeling tools,
I think you saw it in the
presentation earlier if you
were at the overview session.
So that's new today.
So the great value we think that
WebObjects brings to development is
how quickly you can go from database
to model to working prototype to
refining that prototype to having
a great world-class application.
So we've built some prototyping
tools on top of the WebObjects stack.
The idea here is we want to get you
going in sort of less than five minutes,
writing no code, so that you start off,
model your data, boom,
here's something to show the boss,
here's something to show the client,
here's something to validate
that my idea is a good one,
and go from there.
tools are great for
building proof of concepts.
They make wonderful internal tools.
If someone else manages the
content in your database,
here let me model the
The database for you.
Let me build a direct-to-web tool,
and now let me hand it off to you,
and you manage the database.
Here's your tool.
It just works.
You just go.
Makes a great database
administration application.
So there are three
direct-to technologies.
Direct-to-web takes your model,
turns it into a web app.
Direct-to-web services takes your model,
publishes it as SOAP APIs.
And direct-to-Java client will take your
model and turn it into a swing-based,
double-clickable Java client application.
So we can switch to the demo machine.
I want to show you
EOModeler this morning,
reverse engineering,
an existing data store.
Just a show of hands,
how many people managed to download the
sample code and will be following along?
Okay, a couple of you.
I'll try not to move too fast.
So you open the trading card demo,
open the EO Modeler,
The first thing I'm going to
do here is build an OpenBase
database on this application.
OpenBase ships with WebObjects.
So I'm going to open
the OpenBase manager.
Let's come up.
On the left-hand side,
I'm going to select local.
Under this action menu,
I'm going to select new database.
And we're building a trading cards app.
Did you all see the Meet the Engineering?
Meet the Tiger Engineers, WWDC promo.
Yeah, familiar with that?
So we, our group,
are really cottoned to that,
so we've based our demos around it.
So we're gonna call this
database Trading Cards.
Hit Create.
And I'm going to hit Start Database
at boot just in case my machine
crashes while I'm running here.
And I want to save changes.
Select the Trading Cards
database I created.
Hit Start.
It's going to start up and...
In the one pre-demo folder
in the trading cards demo,
there should be
A file called Trading Cards_ASCII Backup.
So what I've done is I've pre-built this
database and then dumped it as ASCII.
So under the Action menu,
I am going to restore
that database from ASCII.
Yes, I want to restore it.
That's a surprise for Chris.
This didn't have a
password when I saved it.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to start up one of the
other pre-existing databases on
this box and demo using that.
So I've started up the WoMovies database
and I'm going to start up EOModeler.
Okay, we're creating a new model,
so UL modeler is running.
Select new.
Now the EO Modeler is going to
bring open a wizard and ask me
some questions about what type of
data source I'd like to talk to.
EOF natively will plug into
JDBC and JNDI data sources.
So most relational
databases have JDBC drivers.
Most LDAP servers provide
some sort of JNDI interface.
You can actually write your own
custom adapter if you're so inclined.
We're going to go with JDBC.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, back to the original demo.
So I'm going to restore...
[Transcript missing]
When I restored that from ASCII,
you see a terminal window came open,
some SQL ran, and some rows were loaded
into that database.
So have you all caught up?
I'm sorry for the
confusion this afternoon.
So we're going to switch
back to EOModeler.
And in that folder that
you found the ASCII backup,
there's a set of instructions with
screenshots walking you through this.
I'm just going to grab the
URL connection string for this database,
copy it.
[Transcript missing]
Now, the modeler is going to ask me
what I want to do with this model.
What am I interested in getting from
the database and including in my model?
I want to use EOF to assign primary keys,
so I'm going to leave that selected.
I'm interested to see if there are
any joins set up in the database,
so I'm going to leave asking
about relationships selected.
But I'm not interested in stored
procedures or custom enterprise objects,
so I'm going to uncheck the
two of those and click Next.
So now what happened here is
modeler connected to the database,
got a list of all the tables associated
with that connection dictionary,
and it's populated this table view here.
I'm interested in all of these tables,
so I'm going to hit Select All,
then select Next.
Now the wizard's done.
It's collected all the
information it needs,
and it's built a model for me.
So if you've never used EOModeler before,
what you have on the left is a
list of the model name and all of
the entities associated with it.
And by selecting an entity,
what I see on the right here
in the top of the split view
is the web-based assistant.
He will be talking about the web-based
So I need to set up two relationships
here for my application to run.
Each of my trading cards,
every person that's represented by
a trading card has several powers
and we have a picture of them,
we have an image.
Under Properties, I'm going to add a
relationship to trading cards.
Select that.
Open the inspector and
we'll do the image first.
So I'm going to give the
Relationship the name of image.
It's 2-1, and we're connecting...
The trading card entity
to the image entity,
and we're using
Image ID is a foreign key,
row ID is the primary key,
and then I'm going to hit connect.
So, give you a second.
Your screen looks like this.
Now, on the trading card entity,
we now have a new special kind of
property called the relationship
that will traverse those two tables.
I'm going to select Trading Card again.
Under Property,
I'm going to add another relationship.
[Transcript missing]
: Thank you, Chris.
Thanks, Chris.
Okay, so I went to save my model there.
I hit Command-S.
And EOF and the EO Modeler went
through a consistency check.
So what it did was basically
parse through all the model,
looking for problems.
We see here attribute row ID and entity
image begins with a capital letter,
which is not recommended.
It's not fatal, but the EOF stack is
basically just telling us,
hey, this might be a problem later.
If it were fatal, it would stop us from
saving the model and say,
no, before you proceed,
you have to fix this.
These are just warnings,
so I'm going to click through them.
And we will call this training cards.
And I'm going to save
it as training cards.
on my desktop, oops.
I'll replace the one I had there.
And one of the features I mentioned
earlier was data browsing.
So I'm going to select
the trading card entity.
And this icon here in the top
toolbar looks like a magnifying
glass connected to a cylinder.
It's the browse data.
[Transcript missing]
So you can see, yeah,
my connection dictionary does work.
EOF is really fetching
data from the database.
We're good to go.
So we're going to hide
EO Modeler for a second.
And back to the sample code.
I've pre-built most of these projects
in the demo code folders today,
so if you've gotten behind,
to quickly catch you up,
where we're at is to post-demo.
So now that we've built our model,
what I want to do is build an
application prototype out of it.
I want to see that...
My proof of concept is sound,
that my model is good.
I want to see what it's going
to look like on the web.
I want to show my boss, maybe.
So we're going to build a
direct-to-web application.
So I'm going to open the
trading cards_d2w application
and find the Xcode project.
I have an older version of Xcode here,
so if any of you have the older
version of Xcode installed today,
and you're opening an existing project,
it's going to ask you to upgrade a copy.
You should hit upgrade, it's okay,
and give your project a new name,
hit save.
I brought my project up.
I'm going to build and run.
Building a direct-to-web application
and you're starting from scratch.
We couldn't for the sake of time today.
Launch Xcode.
Tell it you want to build a new project.
There'll be a project assistant that
comes up and will walk you through
building a direct-to-web application.
It'll ask you which frameworks
you'd like to include,
what models you'd like to include,
and go from there.
So our project is done building.
It's now running.
We build a login page by default.
Whatever values you passed in here,
if you needed a connection dictionary,
username and password, and EOModeler,
you'd provide them here.
We don't, so I'm just going to hit login.
And the default page in
DirectWeb is the Find page.
See a list of all the entities
that we had built in the model.
I'm going to hit
I'll leave the Find button
next to Trading Card.
And there we go.
No code, very little effort.
I've got a simple,
pleasant-looking web app
talking to my database.
I can create new instances
of any of my entities.
I can search on any of them.
So, as you can see, DirectWeb is a great,
rapid application prototyping tool.
If we could go back to the slides.
So what have we seen so far?
We've seen taking EOModeler and reverse
engineering an existing database.
Then we took that model that
we built and built a very quick
direct-to-web app out of it.
The next thing we're going to talk
about is writing custom logic.
EOF and the WebObjects frameworks
do a lot of heavy lifting for you.
We've worked hard, so you don't have to.
We've thought a lot
of the issues through,
so you don't have to.
So what do you have to do?
You have to bring your domain
expertise to the problem.
Most likely, the rows you have sitting
raw in your database,
translated into objects.
They might be of great
value to someone that way,
but they're probably of
greater value once you add
[Transcript missing]
We can build a workable application.
You're going to build
a great application.
And part of that
is building your logic.
I call this fine-tuning
a well-oiled machine.
WebObjects works great out of the box.
You just saw it.
We built a model, boom.
We built a direct-to-web app, boom.
But it's not yours.
You need to make it yours.
So we're now into talking about
the controller layer of MVC.
We're talking about business logic.
So we're going to be spending quite a bit
of time talking about custom-generated
Java code from your model.
And you're going to be
modifying that Java code,
and you're going to be
doing it using Xcode.
Xcode is the preferred IDE for
WebObjects development on Mac OS X.
does all the typical
wonderful IDE things,
compiler, debugger, version control.
We're supporting subversion, Perforce,
CVS now.
All the documentation you need while
you're building your WebObjects app
is accessible from within Xcode.
And it comes with a bunch of project
assistants to help you get started.
We don't want you simply sitting in front
of the blank canvas that is an empty
Xcode project and wondering what to do.
So if you're creating
a direct-to-web app,
there's a direct-to-web
project assistant.
If you're creating a standalone web app,
there's a template to
get you started there.
So now I'm going to take the--
go back to the demo machine.
I'm going to show you a quick
demo we've come up with.
I've taken that model
that we created earlier
created some Java classes
for it and actually created a
WebObjects project out of it.
If you're following along on
your laptops in the audience,
we're on the 2_Xcode folder and
within there you should find
a folder called Trading Cards.
If you want to open that up.
And open up tradingcards.xcode.
Again, this is an older version.
This project was saved with
an older version of Xcode,
so it's going to ask
me to upgrade a copy.
I'm going to do that.
For those of you who
aren't familiar with Xcode,
I'll give you a really,
really quick tour.
I highly suggest if
you haven't used Xcode,
check out some of the
other sessions today.
It's really out of the question.
Out of the scope of this talk for me to
go into all of the ins and outs of Xcode,
but all Wo projects are basically
organized the same way within Xcode.
Your classes are in the classes.
: Thank you, Chris.
Thank you, Chris.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
So,
we've got the Web Components container,
your WoE components,
the building blocks of your UI are
in the Web Components container.
Any resources, images,
the model that we added to this project,
any properties associated
with it are in there.
So as I said,
I pre-built this demo from within.
EOModeler,
I generated this trading card class.
I'm going to open the editor here.
And this is the code that
Eel Modeler generated for me.
Every entity and
I'm sorry,
every relationship and attribute on
this entity have accessors and mutators.
One thing my object model was missing,
one thing this entity was
missing was a full name field.
There was fields for the engineer's
first name and last name,
but nothing for full name.
So I've written
That bit of custom logic here.
So method returns a string,
and all I'm doing is calling the
surname and first name accessors,
concatenating them,
comma delimiting them,
and returning them.
So now I'm going to go actually
use that in a working app.
So I'm going to hit build and run.
So here are my trading cards.
They're not pretty, but if you look,
Using WebObjects Builder earlier,
I managed to write a custom accessor,
some custom logic on my trading
card class and bind it to the UI,
and it works.
Obviously, this is a very trivial,
very simple demonstration for
the constraints of time today.
There's a lot more that you can do.
If we could go back to the slides.
Back to our sports car
analogy from earlier.
You assembled your nuts and bolts.
You built your model.
You generated some Java classes.
You wrote a bunch of
custom business logic.
Things are looking good.
runs like a dream.
So far it doesn't look like much though.
My direct web example was cool.
And it looked okay,
but it's nothing you'd
sell to a customer.
It lacks a certain...
Customization.
So it's all about the chrome
and the racing stripes.
We're going to show you how to do
that today using WebObjects Builder.
So we're going to go ahead now and talk
about the last part of our MVC paradigm
and talk about the presentation layer,
view layer.
Today I'm going to talk
about WebObjects Builder.
WebObjects Builder is our
visual content creation tool.
Use it to build WoW components
out of the base dynamic elements
that ship with WebObjects.
WebObjects Builder ships with a rich
collection of reusable components.
You drag them together,
plug them together.
[Transcript missing]
So the point of WebObjects
Builder is you've got this data,
you've got this business logic,
we need to tie it to the UI.
We need to bring it all together.
So that's what you spend most of your
time doing in WoBuilder is saying.
Got this.
How do I display it?
One of the cool features
of WebObjects Builder,
pushing the idea of rapid application
development is our rapid turnaround mode.
Once you get your projects built,
your custom classes written and all that,
you want to sit down and tweak the UI.
You want to make it great.
A rapid turnaround mode
helps you with that.
The idea is why should you have to
Recompile your app every
time you make a UI change.
So open your app in Xcode,
get it built and running,
open the component you're
working with in Xcode,
Your project's running.
Open it in your browser.
Tweak your component as you see fit.
Reload your page in Xcode,
or reload your page in Safari.
Repeat the cycle.
No stopping your app, no rebuilding.
A bunch of new features today in the
new release of WebObjects Builder.
We're really trying to push our
standards compliance forward.
It's one thing we've gotten a lot
of developer feedback from that,
hey, you guys are supporting HTML 3
point something that's a thousand
years old and we don't like that.
So today we're supporting
HTML 4.0.1 transitional.
We've improved the HTML generation
in the frameworks for people
who are doing work with XHTML.
XHTML isn't supported in
WebObjects Builder yet.
I don't want to give that misimpression,
but we're working towards it.
And we improved our CSS support.
The newest, biggest, greatest feature,
I hope you guys love it today,
is our WebKit-based preview mode.
The preview mode in the previous
WebObjects Builder was lacking.
is the founder of WebKit,
and he's going to talk about
some of the features that we've
An extended version of WebKit that
will support rendering all the
WebObjects tags that you throw at it.
And what we wanted to really give
you out of the box was what you see
is what you get in the preview mode.
So hopefully it will look in preview
mode as much as possible as it will
look like in Safari as the same
rendering engine is being used.
We haven't talked about what you build
with WebObjects Builder yet much.
We've talked about the
parts of the data model.
We've talked about Xcode
tweaking your Java classes.
We haven't talked about WoE components.
WoE components are the building blocks
of your UI when you're building a
web application with WebObjects.
I'm sure you've all
seen the store before.
The store is a WebObjects application,
and there are lots of Wo components
on that page right there.
So, all WoW components start
out with an HTML template.
They define the look of the template.
Looks a lot like standard HTML,
except for these WebObjects tags.
The other part of the
component is the WAD file.
The WAD file is the glue between
your template and your app logic.
It's how you say, I want this object
represented in this way.
And when we do the
WebObjects Builder demo,
you'll see how the
WAD file comes into play.
And the last part is the Java class that
defines the logic of your component.
How does it respond to this action?
How does it respond to
that button being clicked,
this link being clicked,
etc., etc.? All that gets
defined on a per-component base.
Every component has its own
Java class holding its implementation.
So what are these going to
look like in your project?
You're going to see mycomponent.html,
mycomponent.wad, and mycomponent.java.
The top two items,
the HTML and the WAD file,
get wrapped up into a .woe.
It's a bundle.
It's what WebObjects Builder opens.
It's what you'll see in Xcode.
Generally in Xcode it shows up
with a disclosure triangle next
to it so you can see all of the
three individual components,
but .woe.
So now if we could go
back to the demo machine.
So I'm going to launch the
new WebObjects Builder.
If any of you installed the new
Xcode 2.1 DVD that came out today,
and you installed the Xcode tools,
there were some postings to
the mailing list last night.
The new WebObjects Builder
appears to be broken.
There was a defect we found
that the old WebObjects Builder
was not being uninstalled.
So just to be sure you're running
it from the correct place.
The new WebObjects Builder
is installed in Developer,
Applications, WebObjects,
WebObjects Builder.
It's safe to delete the old one.
So I talked about the
WebKit preview mode.
I'd like to do a quick demo of that.
Take the Apple homepage.
The source.
Copy all this.
I'm going to paste it
into the source view,
and I'm going to switch to preview.
Oh, look.
I don't see any... You notice
it loaded the images?
And I don't see any
JavaScript on this page,
but had it been there,
it would be running right now.
So the WebKit preview mode is
really just about as close to
Safari as you could possibly get.
Okay, so...
: So, for those of you that are
new to WebObjects Builder,
let's talk about what it is,
how it works.
You saw the preview mode, that's cool.
In the layout mode,
actually let me open a component.
For those of you that
are following along,
I'm going to open the
three_wob trading cards demo,
and I'm going to open the main.wo.
So this is our layout mode.
The idea is build your
WoW components visually.
Drag in either HTML elements,
WebObjects elements, form elements,
down into this layout mode.
And let me open this project in Xcode
so you see the full integration.
Again,
it's an older version of a project.
It's going to ask you to upgrade a copy.
That's perfectly safe.
Just give it a new name.
I'm going to reopen that component.
So the layout mode is really
split into two separate views.
The top, there's the content view.
You're looking at
A visual representation of your page,
the elements on it.
And at the bottom you see all the
classes contained in your Xcode project.
The application class, session class,
and I generated Java classes for
the three entities in my model,
card, power, and
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to blow some of this content
away and we'll wire it back up.
So I want to display
the name of each person,
each card in this component.
So I'm going to add two WoW strings.
And I would like to display the cards.
First name and we'll insert
a space and their surname.
And all I did here to connect that,
I'll show you again, is click, drag,
and as you get to the component
you want to bind it to,
it highlights.
And just lift the mouse up.
You switch to the source view.
Again, two split views.
At the top you see the source,
the raw HTML and CSS of this document.
And at the bottom is the
WAD file in its textual form.
So the...
We won't dive too deeply
into how the WAD file works,
but it's basically--
Element Name, Element Type,
and then this is a string.
String most commonly has
its value attribute bound.
This string will display
the card's first name.
So, it's great.
We have it all wired up.
Switch back to Xcode.
build and run the app.
Take a minute to compile.
It's up and running.
There's our display group
displaying each of our cards.
Navigate through,
change how many I'd like displayed.
If you notice,
look through the source code.
I didn't write any code to fetch these
objects from the database at all.
Zero lines.
The Display Group handled it all for me.
EOF did all the heavy lifting.
All I did was create a new project,
bring a model into it.
From that model,
I generated some custom Java classes.
and then in WebObjects Builder,
build a WoE component, tied the
Data I wanted out of my
entities from my model to my UI,
and there we go.
One of the things to notice here,
if I could switch back to
WebObjects Builder for a second,
is
[Transcript missing]
using CSS.
There's the raw HTML.
So we talked about the rapid
turnaround mode earlier.
I threw some CSS into this to
make it look a little nicer,
to make it look a bit more professional.
So I'm going to go back.
[Transcript missing]
We saw WebObjects Builder.
It's not really hard to build
great-looking components,
to build great-looking apps.
The separation between the
: Thank you, Chris.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
So, the WAD binding your actual classes
to your UI and the presentation
layer being stored in HTML is a
good one because you can hand off
those HTML files to someone who's
is, frankly, probably better at
UI design than you are,
a graphic designer,
someone who does that for a living.
And as long as they don't
strip the WebObjects tags out,
: Let them do their thing.
Hand the HTML back to you.
You've got a top-notch looking site.
So, what have we covered today?
We talked about the
WebObjects architecture.
We talked about developer workflow,
using EOModeler to create new
database schemas and new databases,
reverse engineering existing data stores,
rapid prototyping with our
direct-to-star technologies,
direct-to-web, direct-to-Java client,
direct-to-web services.
We talked about writing custom
business logic in Xcode,
working with the different
WebObjects projects in Xcode,
and we talked about WebObjects
Builder and using that to
write a top-notch web UI.
If you have any questions,
need any documentation,
More sample code, other resources,
developer.apple.com/webobjects has
just about everything you need.
There are some related sessions
I encourage all of you to check out,
whether you're new to WebObjects or
whether you're a long-time veteran.
The next session in this very room at
5 is WebObjects and J2E deployment.
I'm going to be talking about
once you've built your app,
how do you get it running
in a production setting?
That's session 610 today,
this room at 5:00.
There's an Administering
MySQL Databases session,
session 648, Thursday at 9:00.
Configuring and deploying
Oracle on OS X Server.
We just got certified with
Oracle 10G and WebObjects,
so Oracle's like one of the most popular
relational database systems in the world.
If you're using Oracle,
check out the Configuring and
Deploying on OS X Server session.
That's Friday at 9.
This is probably going to
be the most fascinating
WebObjects session of the week,
bar none.
The performance optimization session,
6.37, Friday at 2 p.m.
We invited a bunch of guys from
the iTunes Music Store to come
out and tell their horror stories.
If you don't know,
the iTunes Music Store is the
largest installed WebObjects
application in the world.
It's a beast,
and these guys have seen everything.
If you've done a deployment
and had a problem,
They probably have a
story that can top you,
and they're the right guys
to ask the questions to.
They're brilliant.
It's a fascinating session.
That's again Friday at 2, session 637.
And we're going to be around in
the Enterprise IT Lab all week.
We have dedicated time
Wednesday at 9 a.m.
If you have any questions
about development,
deployment, you're new to the tools,
you're old to the tools, come and see us,
come and hang out.
Enterprise IT Lab, Wednesday at 9.
and our Java and
WebObjects Feedback Forum,
session 641, Friday at 3:30 PM.
Please come and let us
know how we're doing.
Let us know what you'd like to see,
what you hate, what you love.
Who to contact for further information?
Send email to webobjects@apple.com.
We are listening.
We love to hear what you have to say.
If you find bugs, bugreport.apple.com.
Please, please file radars.
We love hearing your feedback.
We want to fix it.
We want to make it a great product.
File bugs.